---
title: Guardian 9.0.2 Frequently Asked Questions
date: '2020-12-06'
authors: ['Thyme']
published: true
patch: "9.0.2"
description: "The Most commonly asked questions, Shadowlands Guardian Edition."
---

Shadowlands has finally arrived! Nartually theere are many questions to be had so here we go.
# Covenants

**What covenant should I choose?** 

***IT IS IMPORTANT TO STATE THAT EVERY COVENANT WORKS WELL, AND THAT YOU CAN PICK THE ONE YOU PREFER AND NOT GIMP YOURSELF***

* Every covenant is within 5 to 7% of each other depending on the situation (ST/cleave/AOE) (see [sims](https://www.dreamgrove.gg/sims/bear/) for more details)

* Night Fae is likely the ideal choice if you are going to Offspec as it is the best for resto and very good for feral, it also offers another burst damage/survivability cooldown, that said in bear form the spell can feel random at times, and you cannot control if you get more damage/surv. You can also use it in other form for more damage or another healing cooldown 

* Necrolord offers one of the best priority damage out of the covenant we have access to, some self healing capabilities if you cast the Swarm on yourself. But will drop off as the target count increases. That is in part mitigated with the soulbind they have access to.

* Kyrian gives you an ability that can give you either strong defensive capabilities/utility or some offensive potential,and, unlike NF you can control which one you get. It can have a few downside (relying on other people, the dps tether acting as a 20% ignore pain and thus can end up wasting a bit of the damage). But unlike necrolord its dps is constant and does not drop off either in ST or AOE. Furthermore Pelagos is still a strong soulbind. 
Important to note that if you can avoid it you should never use the solo bond of the ability as it is inferior to any other benefits.

* Venthyr gives you Ravenous frenzy, which if paired with incarn probably gives you one of the strongest 3 minute burst in the game, has virtually no downside (you have the gcd+2sec before getting stunned while being idle and bears are gcd locked).Venthyr also has access to strong soulbind for ST, where it will struggle a bit more than other covenant.

TLDR; Pick the one you prefer it’s very close and is unlikely to make or break what you are doing 

## How To Kyrian Tether


First off, your base spell {{< spell 326434 "Kindred Spirits" >}}) (2,5s cast time, only usable in caster form)

You first have to use that spell to either bond yourself with an ally or, if there is no ally around, with yourself. You can change your bonded partner any time.
Depending on the target you did bond yourself to, you gain different active spells, each with a 1 min CD:

__On yourself:__ {{< spell 338018 "Lone Protection" >}}) - 10% less damage taken for 10s.

__On another player:__ First off, 40% of the damage your partner takes for the next 10s is redirected to you (this effect stops after 10s or if you fall below 20% health, {{< spell 327037 "Kindred Protection" >}})

What do you gain in exchange?

*Bonded to a tank*:
You gain also Kindred Protection, so 40% of the damage you'll take will be transferred to your co-tank - except the damage that got transferred from him at the same time. Mind that this only shifts damage and should only be used if one of you is dying to a certain mechanic otherwise.

*Bonded to a healer*: 
For the next 10s you receive 30% of the healing dealt by your bonded parter. {{< spell 327071 "Kindred Focus" >}})

*Bonded to a DPS*: 
For the next 10s you collect 20% of the damage they deal in a pool {{< spell 327022 "Kindred Empowerment" >}}. 
You use this pool to strengthen your damage, your healing and your absorb by 15% for up to 20s after activating this ability (until you used up the pool).
The "absorb" part means that hits against you during that time get reduced by 15% (similar to how "Ignore Pain" from warriors works).

## Legendaries 


**What legendary do I want to build and on which piece?** 

We have a multitude of strong legendary choices, each strong in its own place:


* Defensively:
 
  * Nature’s Order Will (NOW) - Will see use in cutting edge keys and in early raid progression when undergeared. Paired with Survival of the Fittest and Tough as Bark at Rank 7, this allows for 36% uptime on 30% DR  (Drops from Huntsman Altimor, Castle Nathria)

  * Lycara’s Fleeting Glimpse (Lycara's) - Better Barkskin uptimes, but currently falls victim to not reliably proccing right at 45 seconds. Also has some potential play for shifting into Owl Form and Starfall'ing. (Drops from Mordretha, Theater of Pain)

* Offensively:

  * Luffa-Infused Embrace (Luffa's) - Big Thrash Damage, also provides another stack of Rend and Tear. ((Drops from Kryxis the Voracious, Sanguine Depths))

  * Circle of Life and Death (Circle) - If you cat/owl weave it's equal to luffa in ST. (Drops from Stone Legion Generals, Castle Nathria)

  * Draught of Deep Focus (DoDF) - In pure ST, this will be the best leggo offensively for Kyrian and Venthyr. It'll be Best ST option for all convenants if you catweave. If you moonfire, rake, rip, or rejuve more than one target this becomes useless and the effect does not see use. (Drops from The Great Vault)

* Both:

  * Ursoc’s Fury (UFR) - Consistent absorb, more Thrash damage, falls off the higher you push in keys. Most players will not reach the thresh hold where it'll be weaker than NOW. (Drops from Torghast, Coldheart Interstitia, Layer 3+)

*Coldheart Interstitia is in the 3rd week cycle of Torghast wings so we can't get UFR until Dec 8/9th. NOW comes from the raid so that also has to wait until Dec 8/9th.*

***What are you building??***

For M+, most people are aiming for UFR first. It'll be awhile before you'll need NOW. 

For Raid, most are aiming for Draught or Luffa for damage. NOW is generally seen as overkill for raid.

**This does not mean you have to create something else while waiting for those two. Waiting to craft is perfeclty fine, some recommend it as there's still chances of legendary tuning around raid/m+ releases.**

*For a more thorough explanation and a recommendation on which piece you should build your legendary, check the [wowhead-section about legendaries.](https://www.wowhead.com/guides/guardian-druid-best-legendaries-shadowlands)*

{{< spell 106898 "Stampeding Roar" >}} having its cooldown lowered is an interesting change. The prevalence of Guardians as raid tanks throughout Legion was due primarily to the strength of Stampeding Roar in combination with Guttural Roars, a talent which increased the radius and lowered the cooldown of Roar significantly (and was replaced by {{< spell 252216 "Tiger Dash" >}} in 8.0). When Guttural Roars was removed (and {{< spell 197488 "Balance Affinity" >}} was nerfed from 5yds to 3yds), Stampeding Roar lost a lot of its value, and with it went the main reason to bring a Guardian over any other tank. This change seems intended to restore some of the value to Roar, but it's also important to note that encounter design plays a significant part in determining whether Roar is valuable or not. When Battle of Dazar'alor releases next year, we'll see if this change is actually impactful enough to warrant celebration. I'm optimistic it will.

The damage aura buff is quite significant and should help address our threat maintenance issues both in raid and in dungeons. Not much else to say here, other than it was warranted.

The removal of {{< spell 132302 "Wild Charge" >}} from the global cooldown is a welcome enhancement, though fairly minor for us.

## How will we fare in 8.1?

While these are solid first steps towards addressing the many issues of Guardian Druid, I feel that there is still a lot of room for improvement. 

As mentioned, our self-sustain capacity is significantly worse than other tanks. {{< spell 197492 "Restoration Affinity" >}} has done an admirable job attempting to fill this gap, but I don't think it's comparable to what a Death Knight or Demon Hunter bring at a significantly lower cost. Doing any healing to yourself (outside of {{< spell 22842 "Frenzied Regeneration" >}}) requires you to leave Bear Form, drop all of your {{< spell 192081 "Ironfur" >}} stacks and any Rage you had, spend a GCD or two casting the heal, and then re-enter Bear Form with 20 Rage and have to build back up. The cost is simply too high right now to perform such a basic and fundamental aspect of the tanking role, especially in dungeons.

Additionally, we still don't have a baseline offensive cooldown to assist us with snap threat. It remains to be seen how this damage buff will affect our overall damage and threat, but I don't imagine that it will have much impact on the burst threat that so many Guardians struggle with today. Not to mention that offensive cooldowns are just fun to use; they break up the rotation and keep things interesting. I think it says a lot that our one talentable cooldown ({{< spell 102558 "Incarnation" >}}) actually makes the rotation more boring while it's active.

That being said, I don't want to spend the entire post reiterating complaints that I have made [many]({{< ref "/guardian/bfa-guardian-rotational-issues" >}}) [times](https://www.wowhead.com/news=286248/guardian-druid-review-battle-for-azeroth-community-opinions) [before]({{< ref "/8-1-community-feedback" >}}). There are some positives to take away. For one, all of the changes we received are all buffs, some of them quite significant, and they will have a direct impact on Guardian's viability in raid and dungeon content. 

And to be fair, changes don't occur in a vaccuum; while the lowest performing tanks (Guardians, Warriors) are receiving buffs, the top dogs (Blood DKs, Brewmasters) are being nerfed. It's too early to tell what the net result of all these changes will be when considered as a whole, and we will have to revisit this question once we are closer to the release of the next tier once the dust settles.

## Other 8.1 Non-Guardian Changes

- Feasts and Spirit Flasks will now give you Agility buffs in Guardian spec! No more having to swap to Feral before every pull to get the right food buff. 
- If you still want a Stamina food buff, you can get some {{< item 166344 "Seasoned Steak and Potatoes" >}} instead.
- There's a second new food, {{< item 165755 "Honey Potpie" >}}, which has the potential to be very good for us in dungeons, granting us the ability to kite attackers more effectively.
